---
layout: page
title: On Adversarial Testing of Cellular Network Protocols
---

On Adversarial Testing of Cellular Network Protocols
======
### by [Dr. Omar Chowdury](http://homepage.divms.uiowa.edu/~comarhaider/)

- When: Friday, 11/06/2020, between 1pm and 2pm, EDT
- Where: Zoom; Outside guests please RSVP by emailing <a href="mailto:harley.eades@gmail.com">Harley Eades</a>
- YouTube Stream: <https://youtu.be/W66rFfWj_3s>

#### Abstract

Cellular networks are an indispensable part of a nation's critical
infrastructure enabling global-scale communication and a wide range of
novel applications and services, including earthquake and tsunami
warning system (ETWS), telemedicine, and smart-grid electricity
distribution. Cellular networks thus have been an attractive target of
adversaries ranging from rogue individuals to more resourceful
adversaries such as foreign intelligence agencies. Unfortunately,
security- and privacy-enhancing considerations, however, have often
played second fiddle to quality-of-service, interoperability, and
bandwidth concerns during cellular protocol design. As a consequence,
cellular protocols, including the most recent generation, have been
often plagued with debilitating attacks due to design weaknesses and
deployment slip-ups. In this talk, I will start by discussing an
automated analysis approach to reason about the security and privacy
properties of cellular network protocol. Next, I will discuss several
side-channel attacks that can give away a victim's geographical
location as well as its persistent identifier, when the adversary only
knows the victim's phone number. I will conclude the talk by
discussing several low-cost defense mechanisms whose inclusion can
raise the bar for the attackers.

#### Bio

Dr. Omar Haider Chowdhury is an Assistant Professor of Computer
Science at the University of Iowa where he currently co-directs the
Computational Logic Center (CLC). He received his Ph.D. from the
University of Texas at San Antonio and was post-doctoral research
associates at Carnegie Mellon University and Purdue University before
joining Iowa. His research focuses on applying techniques from
computational logic and automated reasoning to solve
practically-relevant computer security and privacy problems. His work
has been awarded as the distinguished papers at ACM SACMAT, ACSAC, and
ACNS. He was inducted to the GSMA Mobile Security Hall of Fame for his
work on cellular network security. In addition, his research has
received funding from NSF and DARPA, including a DARPA Young Faculty
Award.
