---
layout: page
title: Identification and Extraction of Content-hiding iOS Applications 
---

Identification and Extraction of Content-hiding iOS Applications 
======
### by Dr. Gokila Dorai

- When: Friday, 08/28/2020, between 1pm and 2pm
- Where: Zoom; Outside guests please RSVP by emailing <a href="mailto:harley.eades@gmail.com">Harley Eades</a>

#### Abstract

Content hiding (or vault) apps are a class of applications that allow
users to hide photos, videos, documents, and other content securely. A
subclass of these applications called decoy apps further supports
secret hiding by having a mode that mimics standard apps such as
calculators but can turn into a vault-app through entering a specific
input. In this work, we focus on iOS devices and first describe how to
identify content hiding applications from the App Store. We consider
not only the US Store but also give results for App Stores in Russia,
India, and China. We show an effective and very fast identification of
content hiding apps through a two-phase process: initial
categorization using keywords followed by more precise binary
classification. We next turn to understand the behavior and features
of these vault apps and how to extract the hidden information from
artifacts of the appâ€™s stored data. Based on this work, we have
designed and built a fully automated vault-app identification and
extraction system that first identifies and then extracts the hidden
data from the apps on an iOS smartphone. Using our vault
identification and data extraction system (VIDE), law enforcement
investigators can more easily identify and extract data from such apps
as needed. Although vault apps are removed regularly from the App
Store, VIDE can still identify removed apps as our system continues to
maintain information on such apps in our vault database.

#### Author Bio

Gokila Dorai received a Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Florida
State University in December 2019. Her research is in the field of
digital forensics tool development for mobile and IoT devices using
machine learning and AI. She has collaborated with internal and
external organizations including the National Institute of Justice and
Law Enforcement agencies.


